# Social-Health-Care
Would linking Social and Health care together support our community better?
This repository is open to those who wish to collabarate on how to improve Health and Social care for all. As this is my first repository, I am open to improving. So comments and information in regards of this topic, will be appreciated.
My background; Having worked in the care sector for 20 years, in various roles, from Nursing Assistant, Home Carer, Direct Payments officer to Adult Care Manager, my experience is primarily community work with adults. However, I have some experience of working in hospital discharges teams and well aware of the resources constraints for both sectors, which has been decreasing since the 1980s (https://www.kingsfund.org.uk/projects/nhs-in-a-nutshell/hospital-beds). 
The nation is fully aware of the issues surrounding NHS and some idea of Social Care issues. I suggest that in regards of establishing the truth that the basics are looked at to establish the route to better outcomes. I put forward that the current main issues are as follows  (to be agreed/disscussed further); Staffing issues, resources, equipment, suitable for individuals, value for money and accessibility.
The results of reduced resources has meant that Social and Health care professionals are not treated with respect and their work has been demeaned and this has lead to a reduction in staff available for the NHS and Social Services to be able to fufill it duties. This along with other factors, has lead the NHS to breaking-point, which is apparent for the last several winters, where hospitals are experiencing bed shortages, during the most likely period that the population will be ill. Hospital discharge teams have several issues when trying to discharge a patient into the community and the biggest is the lack of community care available to ensure a quick discharge and free up beds for others. Its seems we are running two systems into the ground, when one might work better.
I personally cannot see the logic in having two seperate systems trying to treat one person, it hinders the process of treatment, which leads to a slower recovery, which impedes on both services for longer and therefore more costly. If the two were one, then social care would be involved at GP levels, working alongside them to reduce admissions to hospital and provide a better life for people in their own homes. Carers would provide whatever support is required, rather than having LAs and PCTs deciding who's responsbility it is, to provide the care and therefore causing additional stress to individuals, their relatives and staff involved and prolonging care needs unnecessarily. I feel that a prime example of individuals reducing the costs to health and social care budgets and leading a life that they were in control of was within the ILF scheme or Independent Living Fund. Recipenets of the fund would arrange individually or with assistance, control over their own care packages. Sadly this has now closed.
Hospitals should be seen as complementing the community service (noted that accidents and emergencies, are unpredictable events and best dealt with more advance technology held in hospitals), instead of providing what should be provided in the community. 
The budget for both services should be in one place and therefore funding will be more efficent overall. Far too often, social care is postponed as individuals do not want the council's help as they will be means tested and expected to contribute, in what they see will be a reduction in their finances/lifestyle. So people will wait until their health fails and then they will seek health care. However accessing Health Care especially under the NHS Continuing Care (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/national-framework-for-nhs-continuing-healthcare-and-nhs-funded-nursing-care) is become extremely difficult as resources become limited as the numbers trying to access care is growing.
 My hypothesis as stated in the title, is to evalute if there would be better outcomes for the population as a whole, if the health and social care sector was established as one.  
I am fully aware that both entites are complex in themselves and a new structure to united them would be a massive upheaval, however, a change is required in order to maintain an NHS thats support the health of the nation and this can only be done if Social care is unified with Health to provide a holositic approach to individuals. 
